So now we had a detailed look at how we can create autonomous web components by extending a simple element.
Let me also show you that alternative way which I mentioned where you can create web components by basing
them on specific built in components or H2 male elements I should say.
And for that I will create a new mode and all created in a new JavaScript file which I'll name confirm
link J.S. now in there.
I will create a new class and I'll name this confirmed link as well.
And here I want to extend the H team l anchor tech element.
Now the HCM male anchor tag element belongs to d a HD female element.
So to this age wrath here.
Now here we could be forwarding the user to Google dot com Google.
And obviously if we were Lotus and we click this link we are forwarded to that page.
Now the idea is that we wrap this in our own Web component or that we create a web component based on
that anchor tag which still has all the functionalities of the built in anchor tag so which still takes
the ref attribute and forwards us but which in addition asks us if we really want to go there before
redirecting us.
And this is a use case you could certainly have on a Web page where you want to have links leading to
external resources where you want to ask the user before really well forwarding the user.
Now for that here in confirmed link all ads D connected callback right away don't need to constructor
review right now.
Just once you have the callback and they are a want to register a click listener on this element.
So on the anchor tag which I am INDY end Extending here we could set up a shadow Dom here and that is
really important.
I'm not doing it here because I don't need it but when extending a specific element you can use all
the same features we used here in the tooltip so you can attach a shadow root.
You can add your own template.
You can do all these things here to here.
I just happen to not need anything off that I want to keep all the default look and behavior and all
of that.
I just want to add an extra click listener and I do that here and a connected callback by adding an
event listener and by adding it's directly to the this keyword I added to my custom element which extends
this built in element and I add my click listener here.
And when this click happens then I will execute a function.
And here I will use e as six arrow function which takes an argument.
The default event object which will be created by the JavaScript engine by the browser so to say.
And then here I have that function body which gets executed.
Now we could also assign some method of this clause which you create here.
But here I want to keep it really simple.
I just have this function which gets executed upon a click.
And what I want to do here is I want to check is confirm confirm is a method or a function built into
javascript it's a globally available function where I ask Do you really want to leave.
And if this is yes then confirm or if the user clicks Yes then this will return true if this is not
the case and hence I add exclamation mark.
So if the user clicks cancel or doesn't confirm this then I want to stop the default behavior.
I don't want to forward the user and therefore on the incoming event object I can call prevent default
to suppress the default behavior which would be to well basically redirect the user to the target of
the link which would be the default behavior of an anchor tag now with that created we just need to
define it.
So again we'll use custom elements and there to define method and justice before we now choose our own
selector our own tag for that element.
And just as for the tooltip we still should use a name which has a dash in it and which also has some
unique prefix.
So you're all again use you see and then confirmed link.
For example the second argument then is are a confirmed link class here which extends to h t male anchor
element.
So just as before but now since we don't extend H to male element but is specific H2 male element the
anchor element and dead would be the case no matter if we extend the anchor or a paragraph or an image
or whatever this whenever we extend a specific element and not the generic H to male element.
So when ever we have such a specific element we need to parse third arguments here which is an object
where I set extends to the tag off the element we extend in this case it's an anchor element.
So we have to use the A tack here.
So our custom element extends deep bolt in anger tag D A element and now with that we can go to the
index h t metal file and in there I first of all want to import this.
So I will copy that import and added import to confirm link J.S. and now at the bottom here instead
of my anchor tag like this I want to use my custom element.
Now when extending a built in element you don't use your custom element as you did before by placing
your own tag here.
Instead you keep the original tag so the anchor tag to a tag but you add and you attribute the is attribute
and the value of that attribute now is your custom selector here.
So that is how you use web component or a custom element based on a built in element like the anchor
of this case.
So now I say is you see confirmed link on the anchor tag.
And with that if I now safeties and I reload that when I click this link I get asked if I really want
to leave if I click cancel then I stay here because if I click cancel we basically execute this code
and we prevent default.
Hence the navigation is cancelled if I click ok instead.
Then we proceed as before and that is pretty cool.
This is a cool example for how you could extend a built in element keep all its style and all its functionality.
Though as I mentioned you could replace for example the look by adding your own shadow Dom and your
own template.
But here I'm just adding a little bit of functionality to all of a sudden have a brand new element based
on that original built in element.